Hey, everyone.
Welcome to the next part
of our Titanic project.
So last time, we looked at
where the passengers came from,
and who the passengers were.
So we looked at the cabins,
we looked at their ages and
we also looked at where they came from.
So what we're gonna do now
is see who was alone and
who was with family,
as far as the passengers on the Titanic.
So how can we do that?
We can start by adding a new
column to define what alone means.
So let's go ahead and
take a quick look at our data frame.
So if you notice you have this SibSp and
this Parch, these two column,
just to remind you,
this Sib column is the siblings.
So, one is true,
they had siblings on board.
Zero is false they had no siblings
on board and in the Parch
means if it's true, it means they
had parents or children on board and
if it's zero that means they had
neither parents nor children on board.
So you can imagine that if these are both
zero, then they were completely alone
as far as family,
as passengers on the Titanic.
Let's go ahead and
make a new column to define alone.
So what I'm gonna do is say Titanic_df and
define Alone column as,
the first that we're going
to do is I'm going to add
the sibling column and the values
of the parent/child columns, and
you'll see why I do that in a second.
Let's go ahead and see what that looked
like, get a preview of it, just the head.
Actually, let's go ahead and
see that whole thing, so
you can get the whole picture here.
So by adding those two columns and
setting it as the Alone,
what we do know now is that if
the Alone column is anything but
zero then that passenger had family
aboard and they were not alone.
Hopefully, that makes sense, so what I
did here, added the sibling value and
added the parent/child value.
So if they were alone, both of
those values would have to be zero.
So anything that is not zero here means
they had some sort of family on board.
So what I'm gonna do now is, I'm gonna
look for, through the Alone column where
things are greater than zero or
equal to zero, and set the alone status.
So to do that, let's go ahead and
set the Alone column and
I'm gonna say its location
of alone.
So I'll say here.
For the column Alone,
the Titanic alone column,
the locations where Titanic data frame
Alone column was greater than zero,
I'll set that equal to with family string.
Then with the same logic,
the location where Titanic_df,
Alone, was equal to zero,
that means that that passenger was alone.
So I'll set that equal to to the string,
alone.
Let's go ahead and run this, Shift Enter.
If you notice, you may get an error here,
don't worry about that,
that's kind of just a warning to
make sure you're not accidentally
working on a copy instead
of working on the original.
It's okay to ignore that, if you want
more information you can go ahead and
check out this link.
So it's just a stack
over flow answer to how
to deal with this specific
Panda's warning but don't worry,
you haven't done anything wrong
if you get this warning here.
So let's go ahead and make sure it
worked by just getting a quick preview.
If we look all the way here on the right,
we have this Alone column that signifies
whether or not they're with family or
if they're alone and now let's
get onto a visualization of this.
So we'll start off with the most
basic one, the factor plot and
we're just going to plot people alone,
set the data set as Titanic_df.
In this case,
I'll set the palette equal to blues.
Now remember,
you can choose any palettes you want
from that map plot lib colormap link
we showed in an earlier lecture.
So what am I doing here?
I'm just setting a factor
plot on the Alone column
using my Titanic_df data frame and
here we go.
It looks like from our basic analysis that
actually quite a bit more people were
completely alone then those that came on
board with some sort of family,
either siblings or parents or children.
Great.
Now that we've analyzed the data,
let's go ahead and
take a look at probably the most
interesting and open-ended question, which
is what factors helped someone survive
the sinking or crash of the Titanic?
So what I can do with my data frame
is create a new column and
we can do that through mapping.
Let's go ahead and make a column called
Survivor in our data frame and
I'm gonna set
this equal to the Survived column and
I'll type this out and
explain in a second what I'm doing here.
I'm using a dictionary to map, so
I'll say that needs to be parentheses.
Pass the dictionary here through map,
get zero equal to no,
have one key be evaluative of yes.
What I did here is I made a new
column called Survivor column and
I just grabbed information
from the survived.
So if I scroll up here,
you do have a column called Survive,
where zero is they did not survive,
one is they did survive.
So, no, yes, and
if you're a little rusty on this
mapping mechanism, you can go ahead and
look at the Lecture 36 that
went over mapping, and
let's just get a quick overall view
of who survived versus who died.
[SOUND] Factor plot and
now I'll do survivor,
set my data equal to the data
frame we've been working with and
I'm just messing around
a lot with palettes.
Again, go ahead and
choose whichever ones you want,
you don't even have to specify a palette,
if you don't want to.
I just chose set one to make it
very clear on who survived, so
here are the no survivors,
here are the yes survivors.
Obviously, quite a few more people did not
survive the Titanic than those who did.
So now we wanna know which factors played
into them surviving versus not surviving,
which factors have different
effects on their survival rates?
Let's go ahead and
see if class was a factor.
If you've ever seen the movie Titanic,
that really popularized
the notion that third class passengers
did not do as well as their first and
second class counterparts.
Let's use some data analysis
to see if that's true or not.
So I can say create a factor plot and
I will plot the classes.
Versus who survived.
And I'll have that data
come from my data frame.
That's all you gotta do.
And now you can see here that the general
survival trend for the rates are for
the third class, at least,
is substantially lower.
So you might be thinking this is caused
by the effect of women and
children first and if you remember,
if we
scroll way back up here,
when did we do this?
So third class had way more males
than any of the other classes,
so you can imagine if women and children
are first, then the third class could
really be affected by the survival
rates if it's just purely by class.
So how can we change this by
considering class and gender?
We can note the hue argument.
So I can say hue equal to person and
you remember that Person column we made
earlier in the project, if I run it now,
I get my factor plot,
considering class and gender.
So from this data,
it looks like being a male., or
being a third class were both
definitely not favorable for survival.
Even regardless of the class, the result
of being a male in any of the classes,
first, second, or third, dramatically
decreases your chances of survival but
we might be wondering, is age a factor?
Does being younger or older have
an effect on your survival rate?
So how can we do that?
We can use a linear plot
on age versus survival.
So if you remember from lectures,
we had the LM plot and
in this case,
we wanted to know age versus who survived
and I'll set my data equal again as always
to the data frame we've been working with.
What we have here is all these one's are
up here are the people who survived, and
their corresponding age
down here on the X-axis.
Let me make this a little bigger and
on the bottom,
here is everyone who did not survive,
and their corresponding age.
You can see there's a general trend
if your look at the linear line
here but the older the passenger was,
the less likely they survive,
that's the general trend.
Let's go ahead and use hue to see
the the effect of class and age.
What I'm going to do is,
I'm going to copy that line,
the LM plot, so Age survived and
now I'm going to use hue
and as you might of guessed,
I will pass the class as a hue.
Since we're gonna be dealing
with a lot of information,
it'd be nice to use a palette here.
Note you don't have to use palettes but
they're always nice to play with.
So in this case, I'm gonna use the winter,
which I got off that map
plot lib colormaps website.
This is interesting, you can see
the trends between the classes.
Looks like there's still quite a bit
more deaths in the third class and
we can use the x bin argument to clean
up this figure a little bit more
instead of having every single
data point in this figure.
So how do I do that?
I can make a list called generations.
You can call the list whatever
you want but in this case,
I'm just gonna make some age bins.
What I'm doing here is I'm gonna use this
generations bin, so 10 years old, 20 years
old, 40 years old, 60, 80 years old and
grab all these points that are closest and
bin them by those ages and then get
a little standard deviation on that.
Then I'm gonna use seaborn or
sns.lmplot and I'll plot Age,
Survived, I'll still have my
hue be the class, so Pclass.
My data will still come from
the Titanic data frame that we made.
I'll still have my palette
be equal to winter and
the additional argument I'm gonna
say is x bins equals generations.
So this cleans it up a bit, as far as not
having every single data point here and
you can see there's a really
high standard deviation on
the older people in the first class,
which is an interesting find.
What we might want to do now,
since we're thinking of survival,
is we haven't thought about how gender and
age relate with survival sets.
So let's go ahead and check that
out real quick using an LM plot.
So I can say age versus survived and
in this case,
I'll set my hue equal to sex,
so female or male.
Set my data as Titanic_df,
I'll keep my winter palette since
I like the way it looks and
I'll keep those generation bins so
it's a little cleaner.
This is interesting,
it looks like if you were an older female,
you had a better chance of surviving
versus if you were an older male.
But still the very old male has quite
a bit of standard deviation on it, so
it might be interesting to
get a closer look on that.
So what I'm going to do now is give you-